Transcript 

Hi everyone. Today I'm going to walk you through a few Windows security settings that some people aren't too familiar with that can actually help protect you against some malicious activity. So to start we're going to come down here to the Windows start menu. And then we're going to press select settings. And then we're going to go over here to network and Internet. And do advanced network settings. And we're going to go to advanced sharing settings. So by default for a lot of these are enabled. So what you want to do is you want to turn any network discovery or file and printer sharing off. So one of the biggest ways that you a virus or most activity can move from computer to computer is from network discovery and file and printer sharing. So. Very important. You want to keep that off for both public networks and to be honest, Even for private networks. So we're going to uncheck all of these and make Sure they're off. And for all networks, we're also going to turn off password protected sharing. So we're just not even going to turn it on and we're not going to enable the feature at all. Another thing we can look at is going to be under privacy and security, Windows security. And we're going to take a look here at some of these protection areas. So by default everything is mostly going to show as green, especially if you have Windows Defender enabled and no other antivirus you're going to see virus protection, account protection, firewall, network protection, device security. But one of the ones that's usually disabled by default is app and browser control. So we're going to select that and we're going to run through something really quick. So Windows Smartscreen is a newer feature that came out around 2020 that will actually help protect against malicious software and and potentially unwanted applications by doing Reputation checks on both the files and the websites themselves. so it'll also check for the digital signature on an application EXE to see if it is a legitimate file. UM, this can be both good and bad, mostly because only major vendors will have their digital signature on their file. For example, you know, Chrome and Firefox will have a digital signature attached to it, but you know a smaller applicationl, Let's say you know something developed by Like a small startup or even something developed by a university isn't likely going to have a digital signature, so those are going to get blocked by defaults, and you're going to have to actually follow a prompt to get it to allow, because it's it's not going to see it as a known application, but it's still a free application validation software that's built into Windows which I would highly recommend turning on. So we're going to turn this on and then when prompted we're going To click yes. And then we're going to view the settings themselves. And make sure that it's checking apps and files, making sure it's for checking for malicious sites and downloads. It can also do phishing protection so it can warn about malicious apps and sites, warn about password reuse, warned about unsafe password storage, automatically collect website and app content with additional analysis is needed. We could probably turn that off. We're going to turn that off. I don't want to automatically collect stuff. It doesn't need to collect. And then this is the main one. We're going to make sure it blocks apps and downloads that it doesn't feel have a strong reputation. UM and then Smartscreen from Microsoft Store apps as well, because some of those are not thoroughly vetted like with Apple. So that's it. Hope you guys enjoyed and stay safe. 

 